README.adoc, before:

= re-state
:source-highlighter: coderay
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning
endif::[]

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/maximgb/re-state.svg[link=https://clojars.org/maximgb/re-state]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg[link=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MaximGB/re-restate/master/LICENSE]

Re-frame supplimentary library routing dispatched events via statecharts implementing final state machines

== TL;DR

Re-state routes re-frame events via statechart interpreter, currently backed by https://xstate.js.org[XState] library,
thus allowing more fine grained event handling. A re-frame component might use a statechart interpreter to dispatch to and
handle events related only to the component. The library also implements facilities to isolate component state within re-frame
application database, thus making it possible to write real independent standalone components.

[NOTE]
====
Real life example can be found here: https://github.com/MaximGB/TetrisRF
====

== Instalation

[source, clojure]
----
{:deps {org.clojure/clojure {:mvn/version "1.10.0"} ;; <1>
        org.clojure/clojurescript {:mvn/version "1.10.520"} ;; <2>
        reagent/reagent {:mvn/version "0.9.0-rc2"} ;; <3>
        re-frame/re-frame {:mvn/version "0.11.0-rc2"} ;; <4>
        maximgb.re-state {:mvn/version "0.4.0-SNAPSHOT"}}} ;; <5>
----
<1>
<2>
<3>
<4>
<5> - Use up-to-date versions for your project here

== Usage

There're three required steps involved in creating a re-frame component which uses library boosted event handling and component isolation:

- Create a state machine (or statechart) definition which describes your component behaviour in statecharts terms
- Create an intrpreter (or a service) which will controll the behaviour of a particular component according to state machine definition
- Send events to your component controlling interpreter using `(interpreter-send!)` function.


=== Minimal example

In this example we create a very simple component which displays it's current state and a button allowing to cycle states.
The machine controlling the component behaviour, is very simple, it just cycles through three available states: `:one`, `:two`, `:three`,
with no other side effects.

[NOTE]
====
Basic example live demo is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/basic/[here].
====


[source, clojure]
----
(ns maximgb.re-state.example.basic
  (:require [re-frame.core :as rf]
            [reagent.core :as reagent]
            [maximgb.re-state.core :as rs])) ;; <1>


(rs/def-machine basic-machine {:id      :basic-machine
                               :initial :one
                               :states {:one   {:on {:click :two}}
                                        :two   {:on {:click :three}}
                                        :three {:on {:click :one}}}}) ;; <2>


(defn state-cycler [] ;; <3>
  (let [controller (rs/interpreter-start! (rs/interpreter! basic-machine)) ;; <4>
        state-sub (rs/isubscribe-state controller)] ;; <5>
    (fn []
      [:div
       "Current state is: "
       [:div {:style {:display :inline-block
                      :width "5em"}}
        @state-sub]
       [:button
        {:on-click #(rs/interpreter-send! controller :click)} ;; <6>
        "Next state"]])))


(defn -main []
  (reagent/render [:div
                   [:div "State cycler component, press \"Next state\" button to cycle states."]
                   [state-cycler]]
                  (.getElementById js/document "app"))) ;; <7>


(.addEventListener js/window "load" -main)
----
<1> Require library core namespace, which contains public API
<2> Define state machine: initial state, state transition rules
<3> Define form 2 reagent/re-frame component
<4> Create and start the controller (or interpreter, or service) interpreting machine defined
<5> Subscribe to this particular controller state value
<6> Send `:click` event to the controller upon button widget click
<7> Mount the example

[TIP]
====
Read more on machine difinition in https://xstate.js.org/docs[XState documentation]
====

== Statecharts DSL

[TIP]
====
To read more about statecharts please visit https://statecharts.github.io/ or find and read original David Harel
"Statecharts: A Visual Formalism for Complex Systems" paper.
====

=== Machine definition

A machine is defined with `(def-machine machine-name machine-config)` macro:

[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine ;; <1>
             {:id :my-machine ;; <2>
              :initial :ready ;; <3>
              :states {:ready {}} ;; <4>
----
<1> Machine name, it's used to define guards, actions and create machine behaviour executing interpreter.
<2> Machine id, optional, but might help to decypher error messages
<3> Initial state machine interpreter will start executing the machine behaviour from.
<4> Machine states definition, here I define only one `:ready` final state, since it's the state machine starts from.

=== States, events, guards and state transition actions

Machine states are defined in machine config under `:states` key. `:states` value is a map, where keys are state names
and values are state definitions. A finite state machine can be in only one of a finite number of states at any given time.
A state definition describes what actions to execute when machine enters the state (`:entry` key), what actions to execute
when machine exits the state (`:exit` key), and what transitions are possible for the given state (`:on` key).

A set of transitons for the state is defined under state definition `:on` key, the key value might be either map or a vector,
it describes what events are valid for the state, what are destination states for every event *(or to be more precise
for every event and guard condition)* and what actions to execute upon transition.

==== State transition actions

When machine transits from one state to another it might execute a set of actions, which being re-frame handlers might affect
re-frame application database, request co-effects and issue effects. Actions might be defined in-line in machine config as functions
to execute, or they can be designated via action ids. If action is designated in machine config via an id, then action implementation
should be defined using one of the following macros:

- `(def-action-db)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-db)`
- `(def-action-fx)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-fx)`
- `(def-action-ctx)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-ctx)`

or their app db *_isolated_* counterparts:

- `(def-action-idb)`
- `(def-action-ifx)`
- `(def-action-ictx)`

.Action definition example:
[source, clojure]
----
(def-action-db
 my-machine ;; <1>
 :my-db-action ;; <2>
 [:my-co-effect-to-inject] ;; <3>
 (fn [db] ;; <4>
   (assoc db :key :value)))
----
<1> Machine name the action is defined for
<2> Machine unique action id
<3> *Optional* list of co-effects to inject into re-frame's co-effects map.
<4> Action handler

Transition actions a declared using `:actions` key of transition definition.

.The action might be used by machine like this:
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:on {:run {:target :running
                                          :actions :my-db-action}}} ;; <1>
                       :running {}}})
----
<1> Action is referenced by id, it will be executed when machine transits from `:ready` to `:running` state has recieved `:run` event.
    Both single action id (or in-line function) and vector with mix of action ids / inline functions are valid.

[NOTE]
====
A simple traffic light example implemented using only states and strict state transition actions live demo
is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/actions/[here].
====

==== State entry / exit actions

When machine enters to or exits from a state it might execute entry and exit actions. To declare what actions to execute one should use
`:entry`, `:exit` keys of a state definition.

.State entry / exit actions designation
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:entry :in-ready ;; <1>
                               :exit  :out-ready ;; <2>
                               :on {:run :running}} ;; <3>
                       :running {}}})
----
<1> An action or a vector of actions to execute upon state entry
<2> An action or a vector of actions to execute upon state exit
<3> If transition doesn't involve any actions specific for the transition initiating event then a shortened syntax can be used -
    just `:on {:event :target-state}`

[NOTE]
====
An updated traffic light example which uses entry / exit action live demo
is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/entryexit/[here], compare this the previous one.
====

==== Action re-frame interceptors declration

TODO: See tests folder for now.

==== Guarded transitions

Guarded transitions allow you to transit to differen states depending on some condition. One can analyze event accompanying data
and select a state to transit depending on subdomain a data value belongs to, like transit to `:too-small` state in case event
payload value less then `100` and `:enough` state in case it's `>= 100`. The behaviour can be achieved with transition guards.

Event transition destination might be defined using vector whose items are maps with `:target` and `:cond` keys, where `:cond`
designates a guard - predicate function used to select transition target state. If the function returns `true` then a corresponding
target is selected.

.Guarded transition definition
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:on {:run [{:cond   :slow? ;; <1>
                                           :target :run-slowly}

                                          {:cond   :fast? ;; <2>
                                           :target :run-fast}

                                          {:target :run-free}]}} ;; <3>
                       :run-slowly {}
                       :run-fast   {}
                       :run-free   {}}})
----
<1> If a guard designated by `:slow?` id returns true then machine will transit to `:run-slowly` state.
<2> If a guard designated by `:fast?` id returns true then machine will transit to `:run-fast` state.
<3> If niether guards will return `true` then machine will transit to `:run-free` state.

Both `:slow?` and `:fast?` guards implementation should be defined. There're several macros which allows to define a guard,
they are similar to action defining macros:

- `(def-guard-ev)`
- `(def-guard-db)`
- `(def-guard-fx)`
- `(def-guard-ctx)`

and their isolated siblings

- `(def-guard-idb)`
- `(def-guard-ifx)`
- `(def-guard-ictx)`

.Guards definition
[source, clojure]
----
(def-guard-ev ;; <1>
  my-machine
  :slow?
  [event speed] ;; <2>
  (and speed (< speed 7)))

(def-guard-ev
  my-machine
  :fast
  [event speed]
  (and speed (> speed 7))
----
<1> `def-guard-ev` defines a guard which will recieve only event and it's payload
<2> `:run` event might be accompanied with `speed` parameter which guard will analyze

[NOTE]
====
A good way to apply transition guards can be found in https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/gauge/[gauge example].
The drag operation starts only when pointer moves about 3 pixes from the starting position, the transition is guarded
by the condition guard.
====

==== Actions and guards metadata

Both actions and guards can be designated not only as an id, but as a map containing action id under `:type` keyword and any other
key/value pairs which are considered to be action or guard metadata, those key/value information is passed to guard or action
as normal Clojure keywordized parameters.

=== Nested states

Each state node in a machine definition can have a set of nested states under it's `:states` key. A state containing nested states
is called compound state. If a compound state is not *_parallel_* it should have `:initial` key defined, to point out what sub state
a machine should transit to when it transits to the parent compound state. A machine can't be just in a compound state, one (or several
in case of a *_parallel_* state) leaf substate is always active. When machine recieves an event, it's handling goes from leaf states up.
If leaf state doesn't have transition for an event then a transition will be searched in parent state up and so on.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/hierarchical.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== Parallel states

A parallel state node is designated by `:type` key which should contain `:parallel` value. Leaf state nodes of a parallel compound state
a active simultaneously, as well as they might transition simultaneously if they contain a valid transition for an event being recieved by
a machine.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/parallel.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== History states

History states allow a statechart to transit to last active compound state child state without explicitly naming it in transition.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/history.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== Component isolation

The library brings another useful feature which allows to "isolate" component data model and write a component in a way is if
it's the only one and doesn't share the application database with other components.

To use the feature a code have to be written correspondingly:

- statechart guards and action should be defined with isolated versions of guards/action definition macros
- component view should use re-frame subscribtions defined with `(reg-isub)` function from the library.

==== Isolated actions and guards

Every statechart interpreter is created with an automaticaly generated and application unique path, which, if needed, can be provided
by a user explicitly (as the first argument to `(interpreter!)` function). This path is used to access a section of an re-frame's
application database to store component data into and retrieve component data from.

Both statechart actions and guards can be defined as isolated using following macros:

- `(def-guard-idb)`
- `(def-guard-ifx)`
- `(def-guard-ictx)`
- `(def-action-idb)`
- `(def-action-ifx)`
- `(def-action-ictx)`

The statechart interpreter will access a corresponding application database section and substitute the whole database map in re-frame's
event handling context with just the part of it before executing a guard or action. Thus the handlers will transparently get access
to the correct database section still working with it as if they work with entire database.

==== Isolated subscriptions

To create a subscription to an statechart interpreter isolated application database section one should use `(reg-isub)` function.
The function recieves the same parameters is normal re-frame's `(reg-sub)`, the only difference is that reactions for such subscription
should be created with an interpreter provided as the first parameter

.Isolated subscription creation example
[source, clojure]
----
(reg-isub
  :my-sub
  (fn [db]
    (:my-key db)))
----

.Isolated reaction creation example
[source, clojure]
----
(defn my-comp []
  (let [controller (interpreter-start! (interpreter! my-machine))
    my-sub (subscribe [:my-sub controller])]
    [:div @my-sub]))
----

==== Predefined isolated subscribtions

TODO: see tests folder for more info

Commit message:

Predefined subscripitons are documented in Readme

README.adoc, after:

= re-state
:source-highlighter: coderay
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning
endif::[]

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/maximgb/re-state.svg[link=https://clojars.org/maximgb/re-state]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg[link=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MaximGB/re-restate/master/LICENSE]

Re-frame supplimentary library routing dispatched events via statecharts implementing final state machines

== TL;DR

Re-state routes re-frame events via statechart interpreter, currently backed by https://xstate.js.org[XState] library,
thus allowing more fine grained event handling. A re-frame component might use a statechart interpreter to dispatch to and
handle events related only to the component. The library also implements facilities to isolate component state within re-frame
application database, thus making it possible to write real independent standalone components.

[NOTE]
====
Real life example can be found here: https://github.com/MaximGB/TetrisRF
====

== Instalation

[source, clojure]
----
{:deps {org.clojure/clojure {:mvn/version "1.10.0"} ;; <1>
        org.clojure/clojurescript {:mvn/version "1.10.520"} ;; <2>
        reagent/reagent {:mvn/version "0.9.0-rc2"} ;; <3>
        re-frame/re-frame {:mvn/version "0.11.0-rc2"} ;; <4>
        maximgb.re-state {:mvn/version "0.4.0-SNAPSHOT"}}} ;; <5>
----
<1>
<2>
<3>
<4>
<5> - Use up-to-date versions for your project here

== Usage

There're three required steps involved in creating a re-frame component which uses library boosted event handling and component isolation:

- Create a state machine (or statechart) definition which describes your component behaviour in statecharts terms
- Create an intrpreter (or a service) which will controll the behaviour of a particular component according to state machine definition
- Send events to your component controlling interpreter using `(interpreter-send!)` function.


=== Minimal example

In this example we create a very simple component which displays it's current state and a button allowing to cycle states.
The machine controlling the component behaviour, is very simple, it just cycles through three available states: `:one`, `:two`, `:three`,
with no other side effects.

[NOTE]
====
Basic example live demo is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/basic/[here].
====


[source, clojure]
----
(ns maximgb.re-state.example.basic
  (:require [re-frame.core :as rf]
            [reagent.core :as reagent]
            [maximgb.re-state.core :as rs])) ;; <1>


(rs/def-machine basic-machine {:id      :basic-machine
                               :initial :one
                               :states {:one   {:on {:click :two}}
                                        :two   {:on {:click :three}}
                                        :three {:on {:click :one}}}}) ;; <2>


(defn state-cycler [] ;; <3>
  (let [controller (rs/interpreter-start! (rs/interpreter! basic-machine)) ;; <4>
        state-sub (rs/isubscribe-state controller)] ;; <5>
    (fn []
      [:div
       "Current state is: "
       [:div {:style {:display :inline-block
                      :width "5em"}}
        @state-sub]
       [:button
        {:on-click #(rs/interpreter-send! controller :click)} ;; <6>
        "Next state"]])))


(defn -main []
  (reagent/render [:div
                   [:div "State cycler component, press \"Next state\" button to cycle states."]
                   [state-cycler]]
                  (.getElementById js/document "app"))) ;; <7>


(.addEventListener js/window "load" -main)
----
<1> Require library core namespace, which contains public API
<2> Define state machine: initial state, state transition rules
<3> Define form 2 reagent/re-frame component
<4> Create and start the controller (or interpreter, or service) interpreting machine defined
<5> Subscribe to this particular controller state value
<6> Send `:click` event to the controller upon button widget click
<7> Mount the example

[TIP]
====
Read more on machine difinition in https://xstate.js.org/docs[XState documentation]
====

== Statecharts DSL

[TIP]
====
To read more about statecharts please visit https://statecharts.github.io/ or find and read original David Harel
"Statecharts: A Visual Formalism for Complex Systems" paper.
====

=== Machine definition

A machine is defined with `(def-machine machine-name machine-config)` macro:

[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine ;; <1>
             {:id :my-machine ;; <2>
              :initial :ready ;; <3>
              :states {:ready {}} ;; <4>
----
<1> Machine name, it's used to define guards, actions and create machine behaviour executing interpreter.
<2> Machine id, optional, but might help to decypher error messages
<3> Initial state machine interpreter will start executing the machine behaviour from.
<4> Machine states definition, here I define only one `:ready` final state, since it's the state machine starts from.

=== States, events, guards and state transition actions

Machine states are defined in machine config under `:states` key. `:states` value is a map, where keys are state names
and values are state definitions. A finite state machine can be in only one of a finite number of states at any given time.
A state definition describes what actions to execute when machine enters the state (`:entry` key), what actions to execute
when machine exits the state (`:exit` key), and what transitions are possible for the given state (`:on` key).

A set of transitons for the state is defined under state definition `:on` key, the key value might be either map or a vector,
it describes what events are valid for the state, what are destination states for every event *(or to be more precise
for every event and guard condition)* and what actions to execute upon transition.

==== State transition actions

When machine transits from one state to another it might execute a set of actions, which being re-frame handlers might affect
re-frame application database, request co-effects and issue effects. Actions might be defined in-line in machine config as functions
to execute, or they can be designated via action ids. If action is designated in machine config via an id, then action implementation
should be defined using one of the following macros:

- `(def-action-db)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-db)`
- `(def-action-fx)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-fx)`
- `(def-action-ctx)` - similar to re-frame's `(reg-event-ctx)`

or their app db *_isolated_* counterparts:

- `(def-action-idb)`
- `(def-action-ifx)`
- `(def-action-ictx)`

.Action definition example:
[source, clojure]
----
(def-action-db
 my-machine ;; <1>
 :my-db-action ;; <2>
 [:my-co-effect-to-inject] ;; <3>
 (fn [db] ;; <4>
   (assoc db :key :value)))
----
<1> Machine name the action is defined for
<2> Machine unique action id
<3> *Optional* list of co-effects to inject into re-frame's co-effects map.
<4> Action handler

Transition actions a declared using `:actions` key of transition definition.

.The action might be used by machine like this:
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:on {:run {:target :running
                                          :actions :my-db-action}}} ;; <1>
                       :running {}}})
----
<1> Action is referenced by id, it will be executed when machine transits from `:ready` to `:running` state has recieved `:run` event.
    Both single action id (or in-line function) and vector with mix of action ids / inline functions are valid.

[NOTE]
====
A simple traffic light example implemented using only states and strict state transition actions live demo
is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/actions/[here].
====

==== State entry / exit actions

When machine enters to or exits from a state it might execute entry and exit actions. To declare what actions to execute one should use
`:entry`, `:exit` keys of a state definition.

.State entry / exit actions designation
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:entry :in-ready ;; <1>
                               :exit  :out-ready ;; <2>
                               :on {:run :running}} ;; <3>
                       :running {}}})
----
<1> An action or a vector of actions to execute upon state entry
<2> An action or a vector of actions to execute upon state exit
<3> If transition doesn't involve any actions specific for the transition initiating event then a shortened syntax can be used -
    just `:on {:event :target-state}`

[NOTE]
====
An updated traffic light example which uses entry / exit action live demo
is https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/entryexit/[here], compare this the previous one.
====

==== Action re-frame interceptors declration

TODO: See tests folder for now.

==== Guarded transitions

Guarded transitions allow you to transit to differen states depending on some condition. One can analyze event accompanying data
and select a state to transit depending on subdomain a data value belongs to, like transit to `:too-small` state in case event
payload value less then `100` and `:enough` state in case it's `>= 100`. The behaviour can be achieved with transition guards.

Event transition destination might be defined using vector whose items are maps with `:target` and `:cond` keys, where `:cond`
designates a guard - predicate function used to select transition target state. If the function returns `true` then a corresponding
target is selected.

.Guarded transition definition
[source, clojure]
----
(def-machine my-machine
             {:id :my-machine
              :initial :ready
              :states {:ready {:on {:run [{:cond   :slow? ;; <1>
                                           :target :run-slowly}

                                          {:cond   :fast? ;; <2>
                                           :target :run-fast}

                                          {:target :run-free}]}} ;; <3>
                       :run-slowly {}
                       :run-fast   {}
                       :run-free   {}}})
----
<1> If a guard designated by `:slow?` id returns true then machine will transit to `:run-slowly` state.
<2> If a guard designated by `:fast?` id returns true then machine will transit to `:run-fast` state.
<3> If niether guards will return `true` then machine will transit to `:run-free` state.

Both `:slow?` and `:fast?` guards implementation should be defined. There're several macros which allows to define a guard,
they are similar to action defining macros:

- `(def-guard-ev)`
- `(def-guard-db)`
- `(def-guard-fx)`
- `(def-guard-ctx)`

and their isolated siblings

- `(def-guard-idb)`
- `(def-guard-ifx)`
- `(def-guard-ictx)`

.Guards definition
[source, clojure]
----
(def-guard-ev ;; <1>
  my-machine
  :slow?
  [event speed] ;; <2>
  (and speed (< speed 7)))

(def-guard-ev
  my-machine
  :fast
  [event speed]
  (and speed (> speed 7))
----
<1> `def-guard-ev` defines a guard which will recieve only event and it's payload
<2> `:run` event might be accompanied with `speed` parameter which guard will analyze

[NOTE]
====
A good way to apply transition guards can be found in https://maximgb.github.io/re-state/examples/gauge/[gauge example].
The drag operation starts only when pointer moves about 3 pixes from the starting position, the transition is guarded
by the condition guard.
====

==== Actions and guards metadata

Both actions and guards can be designated not only as an id, but as a map containing action id under `:type` keyword and any other
key/value pairs which are considered to be action or guard metadata, those key/value information is passed to guard or action
as normal Clojure keywordized parameters.

=== Nested states

Each state node in a machine definition can have a set of nested states under it's `:states` key. A state containing nested states
is called compound state. If a compound state is not *_parallel_* it should have `:initial` key defined, to point out what sub state
a machine should transit to when it transits to the parent compound state. A machine can't be just in a compound state, one (or several
in case of a *_parallel_* state) leaf substate is always active. When machine recieves an event, it's handling goes from leaf states up.
If leaf state doesn't have transition for an event then a transition will be searched in parent state up and so on.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/hierarchical.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== Parallel states

A parallel state node is designated by `:type` key which should contain `:parallel` value. Leaf state nodes of a parallel compound state
a active simultaneously, as well as they might transition simultaneously if they contain a valid transition for an event being recieved by
a machine.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/parallel.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== History states

History states allow a statechart to transit to last active compound state child state without explicitly naming it in transition.

[TIP]
====
For the time being please see more information https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/history.html[at the XState library documentation].
====

=== Component isolation

The library brings another useful feature which allows to "isolate" component data model and write a component in a way is if
it's the only one and doesn't share the application database with other components.

To use the feature a code have to be written correspondingly:

- statechart guards and action should be defined with isolated versions of guards/action definition macros
- component view should use re-frame subscribtions defined with `(reg-isub)` function from the library.

==== Isolated actions and guards

Every statechart interpreter is created with an automaticaly generated and application unique path, which, if needed, can be provided
by a user explicitly (as the first argument to `(interpreter!)` function). This path is used to access a section of an re-frame's
application database to store component data into and retrieve component data from.

Both statechart actions and guards can be defined as isolated using following macros:

- `(def-guard-idb)`
- `(def-guard-ifx)`
- `(def-guard-ictx)`
- `(def-action-idb)`
- `(def-action-ifx)`
- `(def-action-ictx)`

The statechart interpreter will access a corresponding application database section and substitute the whole database map in re-frame's
event handling context with just the part of it before executing a guard or action. Thus the handlers will transparently get access
to the correct database section still working with it as if they work with entire database.

==== Isolated subscriptions

To create a subscription to an statechart interpreter isolated application database section one should use `(reg-isub)` function.
The function recieves the same parameters is normal re-frame's `(reg-sub)`, the only difference is that reactions for such subscription
should be created with an interpreter provided as the first parameter

.Isolated subscription creation example
[source, clojure]
----
(reg-isub
  :my-sub
  (fn [db]
    (:my-key db)))
----

.Isolated reaction creation example
[source, clojure]
----
(defn my-comp []
  (let [controller (interpreter-start! (interpreter! my-machine))
    my-sub (subscribe [:my-sub controller])]
    [:div @my-sub]))
----

==== Predefined isolated subscribtions

Currently there're two predefined subscriptions provided by the library:

- `(isubscribe interpreter)` - subscribes to the whole interpreter isolated database section
- `(isubscribe-state interpreter)` - subscribes to the interpreter active state value
